INSTALL.md, before:

# How to Build and Install Grok binaries


Grok uses `cmake` (www.cmake.org) to configure builds across multiple platforms.

To configure using defaults, create a build directory `/PATH/TO/BUILD`,
change to this directory, and run:

`$ cmake /PATH/TO/SOURCE`

On headless systems, `ccmake` (an ncurses application) may be used to configure the build.
If you are running Windows, OSX or X-Windows, then the `cmake` gui may be used.


## UNIX/LINUX/OSX

### SHARED/STATIC

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress` and `grk_decompress` binaries are
linked to dynamic or static builds of the codec library `libgrok`. If both `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS`
and `BUILD_STATIC_LIBS` `cmake` flags are set for a non-windows build, then both dynamic and static builds are generated,
and the static version is installed.


### DEBUG/RELEASE

Default build type is `Release`. For a `Debug` build, run:

`$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug /PATH/TO/SOURCE`

### INSTALL

Root users can run:

`$ make install`

Those with sudo powers can run:
`$ sudo make install`

Everyone else can run:

`$ DESTDIR=$HOME/local make install`

Note: On Linux, after your first shared library build, you must run

`$ sudo ldconfig`

to update the shared library cache.

### DOCUMENTATION

To build the Doxygen documentation (Doxygen needs to be found on the system):
(A 'html' directory is generated in the `doc` directory)
`$ make doc`

Binaries are located in the `bin` directory.

### CMAKE FLAGS

Main available cmake flags:
* To specify the install path: use `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path`, or use `DESTDIR` env variable (see above)
* To build the shared libraries and links the executables against it: `-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS:bool=on` (default: `ON`)
  Note: when using this option, static libraries are not built and executables are dynamically linked.
* To build the CODEC executables: `-DBUILD_CODEC:bool=on` (default: `ON`)
* To build the documentation: `-DBUILD_DOC:bool=on` (default: `OFF`)
* To enable testing (and automatic result upload to http://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=grok)

      $  cmake . -DBUILD_TESTING:BOOL=ON -DGROK_DATA_ROOT:PATH='path/to/the/data/directory'
      $  make
      $  make Experimental
  Note : JPEG2000 test files are can be cloned here `https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok-test-data.git`
  
  If `-DGROK_DATA_ROOT:PATH` option is omitted, test files will be automatically searched in `${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/../grok-test-data`


## OSX

OSX builds are configured similiar to Unix builds.

The xcode project files can be generated using:

`$ cmake -G Xcode ....`



## WINDOWS


### SHARED/STATIC

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress` and `grk_decompress` binaries are
linked to dynamic or static builds of the codec library `libgrok`, and also if a static or dynamic version
of `libgrok` is built on the system.


### Compile

cmake can generate project files for the IDE you are using (VS2010, NMake, etc).
Type `cmake --help` for available generators on your platform.

### Third Party Libraries

Make sure to build the third party libs (libpng, zlib etc.):

  `-DBUILD_THIRDPARTY:BOOL=ON`
  
 #### JPEG support
  
To open JPEG files, you will need to build and install a `libjpeg` compatible library (dev version). Recommended : libjpeg-turbo
https://github.com/libjpeg-turbo/libjpeg-turbo . On debian systems, the `libjpeg-turbo8-dev` package will provide you with
a development version of the library.

##### Grok dynamic build with JPEG support (Windows)

`libjpeg-turbo` must be built with the `WITH_CRT_DLL` flag on, to ensure that the dynamic version of the C runtime libraries is used. Also, if Grok is linking with dynamic build of `libjpeg-turbo`, (cmake flag `JPEG_LIBRARY` is set to `LIBJPEG_INSTALL_DIRECTORY/jpeg.lib`), then make sure that  `LIBJPEG_INSTALL_DIRECTORY/bin` is on the path.

##### Grok static build with JPEG support (Windows)

`libjpeg-turbo` must be built with the `WITH_CRT_DLL` flag off, to ensure that the static version of the C runtime libraries is used.

Commit message:

docs: document how to enable SIMD

INSTALL.md, after:

# How to Build and Install Grok binaries


Grok uses `cmake` (www.cmake.org) to configure builds across multiple platforms.

To configure using defaults, create a build directory `/PATH/TO/BUILD`,
change to this directory, and run:

`$ cmake /PATH/TO/SOURCE`

On headless systems, `ccmake` (an ncurses application) may be used to configure the build.
If you are running Windows, OSX or X-Windows, then the `cmake` gui may be used.


## UNIX/LINUX/OSX

### SHARED/STATIC

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress` and `grk_decompress` binaries are
linked to dynamic or static builds of the codec library `libgrok`. If both `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS`
and `BUILD_STATIC_LIBS` `cmake` flags are set for a non-windows build, then both dynamic and static builds are generated,
and the static version is installed.


### DEBUG/RELEASE

Default build type is `Release`. For a `Debug` build, run:

`$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug /PATH/TO/SOURCE`

### INSTALL

Root users can run:

`$ make install`

Those with sudo powers can run:
`$ sudo make install`

Everyone else can run:

`$ DESTDIR=$HOME/local make install`

Note: On Linux, after your first shared library build, you must run

`$ sudo ldconfig`

to update the shared library cache.

### DOCUMENTATION

To build the Doxygen documentation (Doxygen needs to be found on the system):
(A 'html' directory is generated in the `doc` directory)
`$ make doc`

Binaries are located in the `bin` directory.

### CMAKE FLAGS

Main available cmake flags:
* To specify the install path: use `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/path`, or use `DESTDIR` env variable (see above)
* To build the shared libraries and links the executables against it: `-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS:bool=on` (default: `ON`)
  Note: when using this option, static libraries are not built and executables are dynamically linked.
* To build the CODEC executables: `-DBUILD_CODEC:bool=on` (default: `ON`)
* To build the documentation: `-DBUILD_DOC:bool=on` (default: `OFF`)
* To enable testing (and automatic result upload to http://my.cdash.org/index.php?project=grok)

      $  cmake . -DBUILD_TESTING:BOOL=ON -DGROK_DATA_ROOT:PATH='path/to/the/data/directory'
      $  make
      $  make Experimental
  Note : JPEG2000 test files are can be cloned here `https://github.com/GrokImageCompression/grok-test-data.git`
  
  If `-DGROK_DATA_ROOT:PATH` option is omitted, test files will be automatically searched in `${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/../grok-test-data`
  
  
### CPU Specific Optimizations

For Intel and AMD processors, Grok implements optimizations using the SSE4.1
instruction set (example: 9x7 inverse MCT transform) and the AVX2
instruction set (example: 5x3 inverse discrete wavelet transform).
Currently, those optimizations are only available if Grok is built to
use those instruction sets,  and the resulting binary will only run
on compatible CPUs.

With gcc/clang, it is possible to enable those instruction sets
with the following commands:

```
cmake -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-O3 -msse4.1 -DNDEBUG" ..
```

```
cmake -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-O3 -mavx2 -DNDEBUG" ..
```

(AVX2 implies SSE4.1)

Or if the binary is dedicated to run on the machine where it has
been compiled :

```
cmake -DCMAKE_CXX_FLAGS="-O3 -march=native -DNDEBUG" ..
```


## OSX

OSX builds are configured similiar to Unix builds.

The xcode project files can be generated using:

`$ cmake -G Xcode ....`



## WINDOWS


### SHARED/STATIC

The `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` `cmake` flag determines if the `grk_compress` and `grk_decompress` binaries are
linked to dynamic or static builds of the codec library `libgrok`, and also if a static or dynamic version
of `libgrok` is built on the system.


### Compile

cmake can generate project files for the IDE you are using (VS2010, NMake, etc).
Type `cmake --help` for available generators on your platform.

### Third Party Libraries

Make sure to build the third party libs (libpng, zlib etc.):

  `-DBUILD_THIRDPARTY:BOOL=ON`
  
 #### JPEG support
  
To open JPEG files, you will need to build and install a `libjpeg` compatible library (dev version). Recommended : libjpeg-turbo
https://github.com/libjpeg-turbo/libjpeg-turbo . On debian systems, the `libjpeg-turbo8-dev` package will provide you with
a development version of the library.

##### Grok dynamic build with JPEG support (Windows)

`libjpeg-turbo` must be built with the `WITH_CRT_DLL` flag on, to ensure that the dynamic version of the C runtime libraries is used. Also, if Grok is linking with dynamic build of `libjpeg-turbo`, (cmake flag `JPEG_LIBRARY` is set to `LIBJPEG_INSTALL_DIRECTORY/jpeg.lib`), then make sure that  `LIBJPEG_INSTALL_DIRECTORY/bin` is on the path.

##### Grok static build with JPEG support (Windows)

`libjpeg-turbo` must be built with the `WITH_CRT_DLL` flag off, to ensure that the static version of the C runtime libraries is used.
